## Skewness - measure of asymmetry

Skewness is a measure of probability distribution asymmetry. It indicates whether the observations in a data set are concentrated on one side. This metric shows how the distribution deviates from normality and helps us comprehend the data’s fundamental structure. In fact, skewness plays a significant role in statistical modeling and hypothesis testing. If the data is skewed, the statistical test may not be accurate, and the results can be misleading.

Population skewness: $\gamma_1=\left[\frac{1}{N}\right]\sum_{i=1}^{N}\left(\frac{X_i-\mu}{\sigma}\right)^3$

Sample skewness: $S_K=\left[\frac{n}{(n-1)(n-2)}\right]\sum_{i=1}^{n}\left(\frac{X_i-\bar{X}}{s}\right)^3$

* Each data point is 
    * standardized by subtracting the mean and dividing by the standard deviation

        $Z=\frac{X_i-\mu}{\sigma}$

        $Z=\frac{X_i-\bar{X}}{s}$

    * and cubed by raising it to the power of 3.

        $(\frac{X_i-\mu}{\sigma})^3$

        $(\frac{X_i-\bar{X}}{s})^3$

* The skewness of a population equals the sum of the cubed, standardized data set, divided by the population size (N).

    $\gamma_1=\left[\frac{1}{N}\right]\sum_{i=1}^{N}\left(\frac{X_i-\mu}{\sigma}\right)^3$

* The skewness of a sample equals the sum of the cubed, standardized data set, multiplied with $\frac{n}{(n-1)(n-2)}$, n being the sample size.

    $S_K=\left[\frac{n}{(n-1)(n-2)}\right]\sum_{i=1}^{n}\left(\frac{X_i-\bar{X}}{s}\right)^3$

```python
import numpy as np

a = np.array([212, 869, 220, 654, 511, 624, 420, 121, 428, 865,
              99, 405, 230, 670, 870, 366, 99, 55, 489, 312,
              493, 163, 221, 84, 144, 48, 375, 86, 168, 100])

n = len(a)
mean = np.mean(a)
sigma = np.std(a)
s = np.std(a, ddof=1)

population_skewness = np.sum(np.pow((a - mean) / sigma, 3)) / n

sample_skewness = np.sum(np.pow((a - mean) / s, 3)) * (n / ((n-1) * (n-2)))

population_skewness, sample_skewness
```

```
(np.float64(0.7318522870386027), np.float64(0.7709478991385701))
```

### calculate skewness with scipy

```python
from scipy.stats import skew

skew(a), skew(a, bias=False)
```

```
(np.float64(0.7318522870386027), np.float64(0.7709478991385701))
```

**Note**: `scipy.stats.skew()` function can return sample or population skewness depending on its `bias: bool = True` parameter. So by default it returns *"biased"* skewness, meaning population skewness.

```python

```

